welcome back again everyone Laszlo
Montgomery here with another China
history podcast part two in this little
series that is deceptively build so far
that is is a history of tongue poetry
anyone who wandered over to this booth
to hear about Li Bai cut short changed
last episode no Tong dynasty poetry in
part one but at least he didn't walk
away totally empty-handed we did look at
the two great classics of pre Qin
Dynasty literature the book of ODEs aka
the surging and the were credited to
China's first literati poet qu n of true
state the songs are verses of qu the
truths that sir was a new and exciting
form of lyric poetry that was a drastic
departure from what everyone had grown
used to in the Jo and early Han Dynasty
these two most ancient works of Chinese
poetry are also called the sure saw for
the two works that make up this most
hallowed duo of ancient Chinese
literature the sure Jing and that's
poetry that also came to be called saw
poetry because of the 92 4 line stanzas
of qu UN's masterpiece Lee saw and
countering sorrow a poem that throughout
the centuries became synonymous with
patriotism loneliness and a good and
righteous minister wrongly rejected by
his Emperor all from last episode today
in part 2 we'll trace the poetry history
timeline from where we left off last
time the commencement of the Han Dynasty
when that's a form of poetry at a big
fan in the capital Chung on the emperor
hongou Tzu himself as with many other
cultures whatever was on vogue at the
royal palace ultimately became the
fashion followed by the aristocrats and
nobles and anyone else who had a - to be
like them by the start of the Han poetry
become the most common form of
self-expression and social criticism it
became not only
the government but the political process
as well using poetry at the royal court
and amongst political colleagues a loud
one to say certain sensitive things
without exactly saying what it was they
were trying to say speaking one's mind
inverse was one way around the potential
awkwardness of the words being spoken
about seven Emperor's into the eastern
or latter Han Dynasty at the time of
Emperor Xuan it was decided that someone
had to be called in to organize and
compile these verses of Chu and not only
those poems attributed to children but
all the earlier Western our former Han
imitators as well who could post her own
poetry in this lyrical poetry style one
of the Han royal librarians Wong II was
the natural choice to take on such a job
because he originally came from Chu and
was more familiar with the dialects down
there and was better positioned than
most to be able to interpret the essence
of what chu man was trying to express in
the poems that were written by him so
the definitive source for the songs of
Chu was compiled by Wang Yi into an
anthology called the truth such on Qi
and this has come down to us as the
received version of the songs of Chu
this collection of true poetry is about
60 poems and all the book is broken down
into two parts part one includes all
those poems directly attributed to
chewier and himself including Lee saw of
course and part two includes those poems
that were written by others during the
Han but were directly inspired by
Chilean style and some of these poems
were also written by Wang Yi himself but
what was most important were Wong E's
commentaries on each poem and having
these commentaries handy allowed
successive generations to better
understand the meaning behind all these
the poems and as you'll see in this
episode and those to follow in this
series after enough time
past an emperor would send out the call
to take stock of all the literature
poetry or the sciences - and people like
Wang Yi would be called upon to oversee
the effort to organize curate and
comment on selected works and bring
everything up to date and that's how
most of the poetry we have today managed
to make it down to our time in these
collections and anthologies you know the
whole legend of qu yang was written
during the Han I read that there's no
prior mention of Chu and in any
historical records and that it wasn't
until a century and a half
after his death in 278 BCE that we first
hear of him but whoever he was he wrote
many of these poems so let's back up a
bit and talk about a new style of poetry
that emerged clearly inspired by this
poetry that had become all the rage this
latest innovation and poetry was the
fool style of foo and is usually
translated as a Rhapsody but it's one of
those things in Chinese poetry that we
don't have you know an exact counterpart
a Rhapsody as far as we know it in the
West as a type of epic poetry long
narrative poems the epic of gilgamesh
the Odyssey and Iliad the Song of Roland
they take a while to tell and they go on
and on and they take on grand sweeping
subjects and events the early champion
of the Foo style of Chinese poetry was a
young official named Joey don't get him
confused with Wang Yi who I just
mentioned gie was a brilliant scholar
official who rose quickly in the
imperial government despite his age and
as it almost always happens the young
whippersnapper was looking to reform
some of the old systems a little too
fast and ran up against the
conservatives who conspired together to
shut Joey down they convinced the Han
Emperor when the fourth son of the
founder Gao su to get rid of Joey and
get rid of him he did sending Joey down
south to Cheung sha to do a job no way
below his pay grade
so during jazz period of Exile he wrote
his most famous fool works and chief
among these were lament for Chilean do
Chu and Fuu and the disquisition finding
fault with chain or gwacheon lune the
other fool masterpiece of Jie was called
the phony au feu or on the owl in his
gwacheon lune he rhapsodize Dawei and
all the reasons big and small for the
quick demise of the Qin Dynasty Xin sure
Wong's dynasty got thrown under the bus
big time in the han and it was this
renowned fool poem by je along with the
official histories written by the Han
Court
samaa Chen most famously that helped
contribute to driving this anti Chien
narrative now one departure from the
poetry up to this time was that the Foo
style of poetry allowed for all kinds of
fantastical language mixed with lyricism
hyperbole and involved waxing eloquent
on nauseating details they weren't
exactly poems but weren't prose either a
foo was a little of both they weren't
sung Fu's were chanted and one of the
uses of full poetry was to extol the
greatness virtues and achievements of
the ruling emperor and of the splendor
of the ruling house it was a fine medium
to tell big grandiose and sometimes
complicated stories there were quite
entertaining and wildly popular during
the Han when the Fujian row had its
heyday it became and was during the
Western Han at least the dominant style
of the day Foos were composed for
everything there was no better way to
commemorate une grande Ocasio or
ceremony or achievement than a nice
long-winded fool poem the Great's of
this genre besides Joey included the
pride of Chengdu samaa Shang Wu as well
as yang Zhong and bang GU Yong Chun some
of you perhaps recall from that
history of Chinese philosophy series he
was also a renowned philosopher from the
old tech school go back and listen to
part 5 if you want to refresh your
memory about Yong Chun by the time of
Han woo d7 Emperor's into the Western
Han the Foo style was at its peak the
Foo style of poetry didn't go out of
style though they still composed them in
the centuries that followed the northern
song immortal su-sure su dongpo covered
in chp episode 175 one of his most
famous poems were the first and second
Kirby Fuu a full poem where su sure
extolled salchow as the yi shirt you're
shown a hero for the Aged and because of
the silk road's that Emperor Wu had
championed there came a flood of people
from all over Asia who brought their
music their literature and their dance
to Chung on and it was like sensation
overloaded with so many new things being
seen and heard for the first time in
China besides all the fine work he did
and centralizing power in China
expanding China's borders getting the
whole Silk Road thing up and running all
the missions he sent out to the many
Central Asian states or Confederations
and his giving a huge boost to the
laminating Confucian thought on to the
whole state bureaucracy and adopting the
ideology at court aside from all that
not to mention raining for 54 years a
record that took 18 centuries to break
he established an imperial office that
in its most ancient form went back to
the three sovereigns and five Emperor's
period a government arm known as the UFO
or music Bureau and this music bureau
set up in 120 BCE was tests by the Han
Emperor with sorting out curating and
archiving all this new explosion of
music and poetry that had come flooding
into China and this included the
sizeable works of
poetry that had by hangul Dee's time
accumulated over the past decades going
back to the founding of a dynasty and
not just the poetry of the elites of
society but folk poetry from the
peasants as well it wasn't just the
literati who composed poetry
you see Emperor Wu believed one of the
several ways to project the power of his
great and mighty empire to the world
that beat a path to his capital was to
show the variety of the cultures in his
realm that showed how vast it was so the
UFO was kept quite busy during this long
period of artistic and literary
expression and as we know throughout
world history not all kings and emperors
were musical or patrons of the Arts Han
Emperor I who reigned 7 to 1 BCE
downright abolished the office so this
youthful did its work and became like a
kind of Library of Congress for all the
poetry in China and not only that poets
who were associated with the youthful
music Bureau themselves would be charged
with cranking out poetry for any
occasion
seems trivial to us today but these
verses that came out of this Bureau were
critical to all kinds of ceremonies
occasions and rituals that propped up
the whole legitimacy of the royal house
so music poetry royal entertainment and
religious worship were serious things
back in those times and these youthful
officials were responsible for managing
it in any court entertainment they had
to go line up the acts choose the music
and ensure the swells dining with the
Emperor were thoroughly entertained and
they also created a whole new genre
themselves that became known as youthful
poetry it was poetry written in the
style of the music Bureau and therefore
took on the same name the definitive
anthology of Chinese youthful poetry was
written much later on in the 11th
century
and song the name immortalized by his
association with that work of UFO poetry
was Guam ouch in the story of Mulan the
tale that Disney made a zillion dollars
on that came from this anthology called
the yafu shirred sheet so we'll move on
and let's just agree that the music
Bureau served its purpose in the first
and second centuries BCE and in its
compilations analyses and study of
classical Chinese poetry they came up
with new standards and forms to take
things a step further in the direction
of what will ultimately be taken to
greatest heights during the Tang Dynasty
you know the basic foundation for
traditional Chinese culture was dug in
the Jo dynasty western and eastern but
it was in the Han Dynasty were people
living in those times got to be the
first Chinese in history to take this
amazing culture out for a out for a test
drive for the very first time
plenty happened in the Han with respect
to this poetry that emerged from the Jo
philosophy history so many things will
get their first treatment by the most
brilliant and creative minds of the day
the people of the Han Dynasty they got
to be the first you know prior to the
Han and the chin and once in such a good
time for Chinese poetry you'll surely
recall Chien sure Huang and his Minister
Lee su they tried to suppress certain
aspects of Chinese culture that they
believed wasn't a good fit with their
new legalistic view of society there's
the legend of the burning of the books
and the burying the scholars that tells
you right away
poetry didn't enjoy any kind of heyday
during the first imperial dynasty of
China good for poetry the dynasty didn't
last long and in the succeeding Han new
kinds of styles emerge with the backing
of the imperial court in general and
with this youthful or music bureau in
particular no doubt plenty of ancient
poetry was destroyed or didn't
make it out of the chain but enough
survived and as I said got nice and
energized right at the outset of the Han
another style had merged this one later
on during the Eastern Han right at the
start of the Common Era was the Ghul
sure cool sure just means ancient poem
it was the old classical stuff told in a
style more in line with the times the
verses were five characters long and
later seven the source that contains the
richest reservoir of ghoul sure poetry
from that time is the nineteen ancient
poems or ghoul sure sure Joe sure as I
just mentioned every major style of
Chinese poetry always had some
compilation or anthology that everyone
will lie in eyes as the definitive
greatest hits package from that
particular genre nineteen ancient poems
contained the cream of the crop of this
lyric poetry from the eastern Han no
author or editor named for this work and
all nineteen made it to the wench in or
selected works which we'll talk about
next episode now everything that was
starting to happen in the Western and
Eastern Han is gonna percolate over the
next several centuries during the three
kingdoms and six dynasties periods this
was the time when Buddhism and Taoism
started having a very great influence on
the poetry of the day not to mention a
whole lot of other things too what began
as relatively simple and straightforward
verse in the Han began to get more
ornate and flowery during this time and
by now calligraphy and painting had
become so intertwined with poetry it had
almost become one single art the various
people mastered one over the other it
went without saying if you were highborn
you were schooled in all three yeah
there was archery horseback riding music
and other athletics but painting poetry
and calligraphy yeah those were the big
three and how expert you were
any of them had a pretty big impact on
your stature amongst your peers in a
remaining time for this episode let's
discuss the three towels its hotel and
his amazingly literate and talented sons
Hall P and so chair besides his fame and
reputation is the most famous and
powerful man in China during his time
and of the Han salt I was also a
respected man of letters and a few of
his poems managed to survive into our
time in the show notes I listed a book
of some of his poetry
it's how P he was South's house
honorable number two son and the first
emperor of the kingdom of way one of the
three kingdoms aside from being quite an
accomplished poet in his own right he
was like his father a great benefactor
to poets and scholars alike his brother
Tao sure was a most accomplished poet he
was never able to make much of his
political career even with salt so is
his father
it's how P always had his eye on him so
Tiger instead is remembered for his
literary contributions
among them the Luo Yin sure five
character poems or as they called him in
the trade pent a syllabic line verse
five character poems and Jen on poetry
that's what defined these 3rd century
times in China they were quite different
from the grandiose and over-the-top
Rhapsody's or full poetry that had been
so beloved during the han the poetry
that was most heard in their day was
called Jin on poetry jian on because
that was the era of the han dynasty the
final era of the final emperor it ran
from 196 to 220 and after that saws put
him away and established their own it's
how Wei dynasty the poetry they had
burst onto the scene took this gym on
name from this era that was synonymous
with the last years of the eastern Han
Dynasty I'll just reman
and
a Emperor's reign would be sub
categorized by eras that took on names
that sort of suggested something about
that time or what it might portend and
would be sort of a slogan for that
Emperor so Jen on was just the name
chosen by the Han Xin Emperor the last
one and longest-reigning of the eastern
Han longest reigning puppet that is you
might have heard in Japan whose news
recently they still use this traditional
air a name for their Emperor's and they
just announced the name of a new era on
May 1st 2019 the Rey hua era will begin
and the Heisei era comes to an end it
was here with this Jin on style that
Chinese poetry decidedly broke with the
traditional verse that had been written
since the jo and into the Western and
Eastern Han in Chinese they called this
style of poetry Jian and fungal and
besides the three toes there were also
many others of renowned for their poetry
skills Wang Han and Leo Jun among them
and those two were part of a famous band
of brothers known as the Seven scholars
of Jen on the jian on cheese these were
the men of the day who received the
highest acclaim for their literary
achievements during Soapy's reign the
poetry they yielded and those of that
saws are considered some of the best
representative work of Jinan poetry and
as I said Jian on poetry was a major
step towards what would happen later in
the tong each of these seven scholars
had you know particular acclaim in
certain literary and poetic styles they
also called this Jin on poetry banquet
poetry and the poetry from the Jian on
period and all the imitation works that
followed was indeed featured at banquets
and social gatherings of elites and
Royals and their capital at yecchh hung
modern-day han dong and from some of
this poetry historians have been able to
glean
quite a bit about the kinds of
gatherings they had back then you know
what went on and what people felt about
it this Jen on poetry provided a small
window into the last two decades of the
haand and into the Three Kingdoms era so
we see how the earliest poetry the sheer
Jing and truths led to the Foo style
that led to other styles and now with
this Jian on style that was inspired by
the UFO poetry you can now begin to see
how ancient Chinese poetry developed and
almost all these works are available
today most of them in translation the
names of salto tau P and soldier are
inexorably tied to Jian on poetry aside
from their collective greatness and the
poems attributed to them that's house
became the standard that many successive
emperors would try to surpass as far as
their efforts to style themselves as
enthusiastic patrons of the Arts some of
these besides that saws and the Han
Emperor Wu who we spoke of already
there's also the emperor wu of liang
tongs and song song fades on to Jen long
just to name a few
let me also mention the seven sages of
the bamboo grove the julene shi Shan the
seven sages the seven were these their
story takes place during the terrible
220s
post Jian on era death of the Hun start
of Soloway
and the bloody Three Kingdoms period but
if you were a poet or musician this was
really a good time these seven sages of
the bamboo grove were seven educated
aristocratic men who had in varying
fashion come up through the ranks that
as you know by the time they entered the
game government was a nest of vipers
wherever you worked so these men
inspired greatly by Taoism that was just
now spreading with much greater velocity
walked away from the stress of being an
official and the perceived
shackles of Confucianism or having to be
on the government payroll they left the
city lawyer and went out into nature in
a thorough kind of a way and their way
to live life purposely was to get juiced
all the time and engage in many an
intellectuals pastime drunken parties
with plenty of witty repartee and poetry
flying back and forth
they've been compared to Heaton s or
hippies he could say they turned on and
dropped out sort of what they did and
they love their tipple one of the seven
was run G run G's father was running one
of the seven scholars of chin on the G n
on chisa who I mentioned about a second
ago when it came to poetry greatness
sometimes ran in the family G Cong sort
of had center stage amongst this group
each of the seven had something about
them besides their poetry Chi cung for
example was a Gucci master that Robert
Van Gulick had all his records though
not everyone mastered it the ability to
play the chin was another skill that was
sort of a given as far as scholars
elites and Nobles went raunchy in order
to keep his distance from the Royal
Palace would style himself as an
alcoholic who was too far gone all the
time to carry out any government service
and the wine brought him solace in his
contemplations about the world and all
its imperfections this is one of those
things way before the internet and video
technologies file them under who the
heck knows but they too were a band of
literati who all lived at the same time
their story is the stuff of legends and
folklore and not a small amount of
speculation either these guys and their
time and long after I might add we're
remembered for their story that actually
grew into an entire literary and
artistic motif yeah you can see many
paintings of these seven sages and there
were
so poems as well that alluded to these
same julene sheesh yen and not just in
Chinese painting and Japanese painting
as well there's a lot of claimants to
the actual historical bamboo grove from
those third century days I'm sure if you
wander around the outskirts of law young
you might run into a few and as we get
closer to the tongue we can now see how
everything was slowly evolving and how
the threats House father and his two
most famous sons through the works they
left behind and his benefactors to the
literati of their time help move things
forward and these gatherings like the
seven sages and the bamboo grove and
others who followed left behind a record
of greatness and were immortalized in
later poems and paintings they also
served as this model for successive
generations who look to them perhaps in
their frustrations in walking the wheel
and government service as something they
aspired to well I don't want to say
anything but I think let's just
conveniently put the bookmark in here
and in part three we'll get to the
actual Tong dynasty part of this little
series on the history of tong poetry
it's about time maybe we'll get to the
lives of some of the greats
li Bai do fool long way and a few others
then walk away mad before I go I want to
give a long overdue plug for a new China
podcast this one flies under the
prestigious sub China banner and it's
called China econ talk the host is
Jourdan Schneider one of the young
generation of emerging China specialists
like Matt Chien and others of the
American ski persuasion I just listened
to his show the other day covered a
cover with the venerable legal legend
Dan Harris a great one if there ever was
he has great gas and ass intelligent
questions China econ talk Jourdan
Schneider part of the suction
empire first time I heard the music
intro for China econ talk I thought you
got to be kidding me you can't do that
this isn't gonna work now I can't stop
singing it in my head
Lhasa Montgomery signing off from Los
Angeles Cali Oh baby summer's here 84
degrees outside a mayor taste of what's
yet to come come on back again next time
would you and join me for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast
you